So now that we set up this Angular project and you had a brief look at what ngServe does behind
the scenes and why we use the CLI
because it gives us this bundled up code,
let's have a look at the code we actually work on and for that, I'll bring ngServe back up so that
we can change stuff and see it in the browser
and let me now walk you through that source sub-folder because all the other files and folders can basically
be ignored for now,
the only interesting one is package.json
where you can see all the dependencies of this project
and that basically are the sub-packages of the Angular framework and you can have a look at the angular.json
file,
this is used to configure the Angular CLI project
and you can leave the default settings here but that is basically used by the CLI behind the scenes
so that it knows how to build your project and which things it should keep in mind there
but you can leave the defaults. Other than that, we work in the source folder and there we got a couple
of files, many of them can be ignored as well
but our interesting first file is
main.ts,
this is what Angular will evaluate first or what Angular needs being executed first so that the entire
Angular application starts up and so that Angular can do its job in your browser.
What we basically do here or what the important thing is is this line of code here.
This uses something which is exposed from the Angular framework,
we are importing it here from the Angular framework,
this import syntax is a feature provided by Typescript,
it's compiled down into Javascript by simply merging all the code from different files into one file
you could say. So here, we simply import to declare a dependency to another file and then the build
process will take all these dependencies and merge them together because the import feature we use here
is not supported by all browsers,
therefore this has to be handled differently there
but that happens behind the scenes.
We know that we use something from the Angular framework and we can rely on this being available
in the code that runs on the web
because of that merging process and what this does is, in the end, it gives us object which has this
bootstrapModule method to which we pass a module here, the appModule which we import from the app module file
in the app sub-folder.
Now let's have a look at that file to understand what this does,
so let's go into that app folder here and there we have this app.module.ts file.
Now the file extension, .ts is omitted here because Typescript or the build tool which compiles
this behind the scenes automatically adds this
so to say but it will import this file or it will import appModule from this file and we can see it
here.
We export a class, app module here.
Classes are another feature provided by Typescript,
classes are basically blueprints for Javascript objects you could say
and here we export a class, the export keyword here simply makes sure that we can use this class not
only in this file but also in other files which import it
and that's exactly what we're doing here,
right,
we are importing app module.
This is only possible because we export it here.
Now what is the app module though?
Now first of all, it's a normal class
and behind the scenes this is compiled to a constructor function in Javascript.
Now the interesting thing is this @ngModule thing. Now ngModule is imported again from the
Angular framework and there from the core sub-package
you could say. Angular thinks in modules and now module is simply a bundle of features, a bundle of components
and other things Angular knows which I'll come back to later. You would need to have at least one such
module per Angular app
and for this app, we have exactly this one module. A module is declared to Angular by adding this so-called
decorator, that is something that starts with the @ and then uses essentially a function, that is what
it is behind the scenes, you can't tell by just looking at this but I can tell you.
So we add such a function,
in this case the ngModule function with the @ sign in front of something and you can't use anything
and add it in front of anything, Angular has a couple of so-called decorators which you can import and which
you can then add to certain things and ngModule is one of these decorators, you can learn about all
decorators in the official docs and about a lot of them in this refresher module here and ngModule
can only be added in front of a class.
It then essentially adds metadata behind the scenes, the build process will do this for us to be precise
and this metadata allows Angular to turn this otherwise empty class and therefore the otherwise empty
compiled constructor function into a class which contains definitions of different Angular features
that should work together
and each ngModule has a couple of fields
we can set on the object which we pass to ngModule.
Now I know that this is getting very complex but think of this as a global configuration for your Angular
app or for a part of your Angular app,
a module of your Angular app,
in this case the only module we have in Angular. What we can configure there are for example with declarations
which takes an array, are for example the components we can use in our app.
Remember that I said that Angular uses components,
well here we have to define all the components we want to use inside of this module.
If we have multiple modules, each module can define its own components we can use inside of that module.
So here in this main app module, we can use the app component. App component is again something we import
from the app component file,
so that is this app.component.ts file here actually.
I'll come back to that file in a second, for now
keep in mind this is this component thing I mentioned earlier and we can use it inside of ngModule.
We then also have the imports array here.
Here we can import other modules into this module and we import the browser module which is provided by
the Angular framework,
it's a module built into Angular and it's simply a module,
I mentioned that Angular uses multiple modules or things in modules,
it's a module that unlocks certain features to be used in our application.
I'll come back to which features these are later but this is a core set of Angular functionality that
is now made available to us, this is how you can think about it.
It's also required to start the Angular app correctly,
so our main app module depends on this built-in browser module. Providers is empty and we can ignore
that for now,
I'll come back to this later and Bootstrap is a special key and you typically only use that on your
app module to define your root app component,
so the root component that should be mounted into your browser when the app starts. You typically only
have one such root component,
you have multiple components per Angular app but all other components are somehow used inside of that
root component or inside other components which are in turn used in the root component or in other
components of the root component. So only one root component and that is defined here in Bootstrap
and now something interesting happens or something interesting can be seen when we have a look at the
app component.